## 6.14 Compute a random subset

*Description*:

​		Write a program that takes  as input a positive integer n and a size k <= n, and returns a size-k subset of {0,1,2,...,n-1}. The subset should be represented as an array. All subsets should be equally likely and, in addition, all permutations of elements of the array should be equally likely. You may assume you have a function which takes as input a nonnegative integer t and returns an integer in the set {0,1,...,t-1} with uniform probability.

*Solution*:

1. We could mimic the offline sampling algorithm described in Solution 6.11. With A[i] = i initially, stopping after k iterations. This requires O(n) space and O(n) time to create the arry. After creating <0,1,2,...,n-1>, we need O(k) time to produce the subset. Note that when k << n, most of the array is untouched, i.e., A[i] = i. The key to reducing the space complexity to O(k) is simulatiing A with a hash table. We do this by only tracking entries whose values are modified by the alogrithm — the remainder have the defult value, i.e., the value of an entry is its index. Specially, we maintain a hashtable H whose keys and values are from {0,1,...,n-1}. Conceptually, H tracks entries of the array which have been touched in the process of randomization—these are entries A[i] which may not equal i. The hash table H is updated as the algorithm advances.

   ```java
   public static List<Integer> randomSubset(int n, int k){
       Map<Integer, Integer> changedElements = new HashMap<>();
       Random randIdxGen = new Random();
       for(int i = 0; i < k; ++i){
           // Generate random int in[i, n - 1]
           int randIdx = i + randIdxGen.nextInt(n - i);
           Integer ptr1 = changedElements.get(randIdx);
           Integer ptr2 = changedElements.get(i);
           
           changedElements.put(randIdx, (ptr2 == null ? i : ptr2));
           changedElements.put(i, (ptr1 == null ? randIdx : ptr1));
          
       }
       
       List<Integer> result = new ArrayList<>(k);
       for(int i = 0; i < k; ++i){
           result.add(changedElements.get(i));
       }
       return result;
   }
   ```

   The time complexity is O(k) since we perform a bounded number of operations per iteration. The space complexity is also O(k), since H and the result array never contain more than k entries.

***

### Leetcode problem

