## 6.8 Enumerate all primes to n

*Description*:

​		Write a program which takes an integer argument and returns all the primes between 1 and that integer.

*Solution*:

1. The natural brute-force algorithm is to iterate over all i from 2 to n, where n is the input to the program. For each i, we test if i is prime; if so we add it to the result. We can use "trial-division" to test if i is prime, i.e., by dividing i by each integer from 2 to the square root of i, and checking if the remainder is 0. (There is no need to test beyond the square root of i, since if i has a divisor other 1 and itself, it must also have a divisor that is no greater than its square root.) Since each test has time complexity O(n<sup>1/2</sup>), the time complexity of the entire computation is upper bounded by O(n<sup>3/2</sup>).

2. Heuristically, a better approach is to compute the primes and when a number is identified as a prime, to "sieve" it, i.e., remove all its multiples from future consideration.

   ```java
   public static List<Integer> generatePrimes(int n){
       List<Integer> primes = new ArrayList<>();
       
       List<Boolean> isPrime = new ArrayList<>(Collections.nCopies(n+1, true));
       isPrime.set(0, false);
       isPrime.set(1, false);
       
       for(int p = 2; p <= n; ++p){
           if(isPrime.get(p)){
               primes.add(p);
               // sieve p's multiples
               for(int j = p; j <= n; ++j){
                   isPrime.set(j, false);
               }
           }
       }
       return primes;
   }
   ```

   ​		As we justified the sifting approach over the trial-division algorithm on heuristic grounds. The time to sift out the multiples of p is proportional to n/p, so the overall time complexity is O(n/2 + n/3 + n/5 + n/7 + ...). Although not obvious, this sum asymptotically tends to n log(log n), yielding an O(n log log n) time bound. The space complexity is dominated by the storage for P, i.e., O(n). 

   ​		Since most numbers are not prime, the actual time complexity of trial-division is actually lower on average, since the test frequently early-returns false. It is known that the time complexity of the trial-division approach is O(n<sup>3/2</sup>/(log n)<sup>2</sup>), so sieving is in fact superior to trial-division.

3. We can improve runtime by sieving p's multiples from p<sup>2</sup> instead of p, since all numbers of the form kp, where k < p have already been sieved out. The storage can be reduced by ignoring even numbers.

   ```java
   public static List<Integer> generatePrimes(int n){
       final int size = (int) Math.floor(0.5 * (n - 3)) + 1;
       List<Integer> primes = new ArrayList<>();
       primes.add(2);
       List<Boolean> isPrime = 
           new ArrayList<>(Collections.nCopies(size, ture));
       for(int i = 0; i < size; ++i){
           if(isPrime.get(i)){
               int p = ((i * 2) + 3);
               primes.add(p);
               // Sieving from p*p, whose value is (4*i^2 + 12i + 9).
               // The index of this value in isPrime is (2i^2 + 6i + 3)
               // because isPrime.get(i) represents 2i + 3
               // Note that we need to use long for j beacuse p^2 might overflow.
               for(long j = ((i * i) * 2) + 6 * i + 3; j < size; j += p){
                   isPrime.set((int)j, false);
               }
           }
       }
       return primes;
   }
   ```

   The asymptotic time and space complexity are the same as that for the basic sieving approach.

***

### Leetcode problem

