## 5.10 Generate uniform random numbers

*Description*:

​	Implement a random number generator that generates a random integer i between a and b, inclusive, given a random number generator that produces zero or one with equal probability?  All values in[a,b] should be equally likely.

*Solution*:

​	Note that it is easy to produce a random number between 0 and 2<sup>i</sup>-1, inclusive: concatenate i bits produced by the random number generator.

​	For general case, first note that it is equivalent to produce a random number between 0 and b-a, inclusive, since we can simply add a to the result. Then if b-a equals to 2<sup>i</sup> -1, for some i, then we can use the previous approach. If not, we can find the minimum i that 2<sup>i</sup>-1 is greater than b-a. We generate i-bit number as before. This i-bit number may or may not lie between 0 and b-a, inclusive. If it is within the range, we return it —all such numbers are equally likely. If it is not within the range, we try again with i new random bits. We keep trying until we get a number within the range.

```java
public static int uniformRandom(int lowerBound, int upperBound){
    int numberOfOutcomes = upperBound - lowerBound + 1, result;
    do{
        result = 0;
        for(int i = 0; (1 << i) < numberOfOutcomes; ++i){
            // zeroOneRandom() is the provided random number generator.
            result = (result << 1) | zeroOneRandom();
        }
    }while(result >= numberOfOutcomes);
    return result + lowerBound;
}
```

​	To analyze the time complexity, let t = b - a + 1. The probability that we succeed in the first try is *t/2<sup>i</sup>*. Hence the probability that we do not succeed on the first try is 1 - *t/2<sup>i</sup>* < 1/2. Since successive tries are independent, the probability that more than k tires are needed is less than or equal to 1/2<sup>k</sup>. Hence, the expected number of tries is not more than 1 + 2*(1/2)<sup>1</sup> + 3*(1/2)<sup>2</sup> + ...... The series converges, so the number of tries is O(1).  Each try makes Math.ceil(lg(b - a + 1)) calls to the 0/1-valued random number generator( assuming this takes O(1) time), the time complexity is O(lg(b - a + 1)).



***

### Leetcode Problem

